Chatbots are really trending. 
Everybody seems to be talking about them and everyday there is a new headline about how they are going to be big. 
If you cut through the hype, you’ll notice that there is genuine interest and businesses, small and big, are paying very close attention to them. 
This creates great business opportunities for those with the right skills. 
Chatbots have been around since the late sixties. 
The first chatbot, Eliza, was rudimentary but it proved the potential of chatbots even back then. 
So why are chatbots suddenly so in demand now, over half a century later? 
Two key developments have allowed chatbots to become a viable business tool and such an in-demand skill. 
The first one is the emergence of messenger applications. 
Whatsapp, WeChat, Facebook Messenger, and even Slack have become incredibly popular.
Collectively, they are used by billions of people around the world. 
In fact, messenger platforms are even more popular than social media sites.
Messenger apps might have been the catalyst for the emergence of chatbots, but they are certainly not the only platform. 
Chatbots are now appearing on sites and as mobile apps as well. 
It’s not so much the platform on which they are delivered on, but rather the conversational nature of the interface. 
People simply love textual chat and prefer it over virtually every other form of digital conversion. 

The second key component that allowed chatbots to really take off, is the emergence of Artificial Intelligence.
Chatbots wouldn’t be very useful if they weren’t able to understand what the user wants and respond accordingly. 
Over the past few years, machine learning, deep learning, natural language processing, and artificial intelligence in general, have all progressed quite rapidly. 
You might befamiliar with IBM Watson who, several years ago, defeated the best Jeopardy players in the world. 
More recently, IBM showcased Project Debater, an AI capable of debating humans on complex topics. 

You see, AI is becoming smarter but it’s also becoming more readily available to everyone.
AI is no longer accessible solely to researchers with PhDs in Computer Science. 
Such cognitive capabilities are now easily available via libraries and through services provided by companies like IBM.
Today, the many AI capabilities of Watson are readily provided as services and APIs that are available to anyone with a IBM Cloud account.
In this course, we’ll in fact use one such a service.
Specifically, I’m talking about Watson Assistant. 
This will enable us to develop a chatbot with NLP or natural language processing capabilities. 
In other words, a chatbot that understands our users and can provide useful answers within the scope we define for it. 

