Welcome to How to Build Chatbots.
My name is Antonio Cangiano and I’m a Software Developer and Artificial Intelligence Evangelist at IBM.

No coding skills are required so anyone can
take this course and learn how to create and deploy chatbots.

As we’ll see in this course, with chatbots we can actually use the conversations with
customers to train and make our chatbot smarter and more useful. 
The truth is that customer support is hard. 
It’s not hard because the questions are very hard.
In most cases, it’s a matter of providing simple answers to simple questions. 
It’s hard because customer care powered by humans is not very scalable. 
If your business is doing well, you’ll have an increasingly large amount of customers who need your help.
So you’ll need to hire more and more people and that takes money. 
You’ll also need to spend the time and energy to train them properly, managing them, and so on. 
Chatbots are not meant to replace humans entirely. 
But they can help us address a large number of simple inquiries from our customers. 
They can scale indefinitely, unlike human teams, and are available 24/7 every day of the year. unlike human teams.
In other words, they can act as a first line of defense for your customer care team, allowing you to inexpensively scale your customer support operations and provide a better service by having immediate answers around the clock for common inquires.
EXAMPLES: 
Hotel reception chatbot

We had this customer care scaling problem ourselves when Cognitive Class started to become more popular.
We were ecstatic to have one million enrolled learners, but that posed a serious problem for our small team.
So we created a student advisor chatbot that could advise students on which course to take and other common questions. 

Here is another one: Allan from Dollar Tea Club, a subscription service for tea lovers, is a one man shop.
He has to do everything by himself. 
Prior to introducing a chatbot he was spending a lot of his time answering the same questions over and over. 
Again, simple questions that still take time to answer if a human is on the receiving end. 
So he took the first version of this chatbot course and built a chatbot that is saving him many hours a week. 
The chatbot he created is allowing him to regain some of his time which he can use to actually grow his business. 

Another example I wanted to give you is Oscar, the chatbot from the airline company Air New Zealand. 
I recently visited their wonderful country and on my way there I had a question about protein powder. 
You know how import regulations can be quite strict, so I got a little paranoid that I might be breaking some rules. 
Not wanting to be the Pablo Escobar of Whey Protein Isolate, I asked the staff on board and they had no idea. 
Thankfully, I had Wi-Fi on the plane and was able to use their chatbot which had an answer to my protein powder question and all other questions I had.
I was really impressed by how useful it was especially at 35,000 feet in the air. 

As you can see, chatbots are universally useful, regardless of whether you’re a one-person operation or a fortune 500 company. 
Throughout this course we’ll learn how to create chatbots that serve practical business purposes, rather than just being amusing gimmicks. 

But first,what is a chatbot? 
It’s a software agent capable of conversing with users through some kind of chat interface. 
Typically, the chatbot will greet the user and invite them to take some action like asking it a question.
When the user replies, the chatbot will parse the input and figure out the intention of the user’s question. 
Finally, it will respond in a consequential manner, either providing information or asking for further details before ultimately answering the question.
They make the user feel understood and helped. 
They create rapport with the user, without pretending to be human. 
The most common chatbots are textual chatbots. 
The kind you’d interact with in a chat pop up window on a web site or through a messaging app like Facebook Messenger, Whatsapp or Slack.
However, you can interact with some chatbots through your voice. 
Apple Siri and Amazon Alexa are two examples of audio-based virtual assistants.
Before we proceed further, it’s worth noting that sometimes you might hear the word “bot” instead of chatbot in this course or elsewhere online.
Depending on the context, it’s acceptable to use bot in lieu of chatbot to mean the same thing. 
For example, a trader bot might monitor the market for certain conditions and then perform automated stock trading transactions based on that information. 
That’s not a chatbot, as no chatting is taking place. 
The conversational element is what makes a bot a chatbot. 
There are many other terms that refer to chatbots, such as chatterbot, chatterbox, talkbot, virtual assistant, Conversational Agent, embodied agent, and even Artificial
Conversational Entity or its acronym ACE. 